Computers can communicate with each other as humans do. They can talk and listen, participate in a dialog or a polylog, and broadcast the information. The computers can send the data carefully, making sure that at the other end, the message was fully received. Or they can be in a rush, trying to send as much data as possible and give an overview of it to the receiver without delay.
To better understand computer networking, we have to know the components involved in the communication process.
Cables. In the '60s, commercial computers were widely used in research labs and big companies. However, the data exchange between machines and their users was quite old-fashioned: with punched cards or with magnetic tapes. People had to personally carry data from one place to another on a floppy disk or other removable medium.

With cables, it became easy to connect different devices and send the data through them. The most popular types of wires to create computer networks nowadays are copper and fibre cables.
Copper cables are the most common form of networking cables. They consist of paired copper wires covered with rubber or plastic and are cheaper than fiber cables. They send binary data (0s and 1s) by changing the voltage (modulation) between two ranges: 2v and above represents 1, 0.8v or fewer converts to 0. Voltages between 0.8v and 2v are considered noise.
Fibre optical cables contain optical fibers made of glass and present binary data by pulses of light (light-on represents 1, light-off converts to 0). They are also a better choice in environments with lots of electrical interference. Fiber cables have lower latency - the time it takes for a message to be transmitted - than copper cables and can send data to a long distance. However, they are much more expensive and fragile.

Transmission Mode. 
In computer communication, we always have a sender and receiver, and the transmission between them can be in either simplex, duplex, or half-duplex mode depending on the direction of exchange of information:
Simplex - the communication between the sender and receiver performed only in one direction, like a baby monitor. 
Duplex - the communication is possible in both directions simultaneously, like the one we have during a phone call. 
Half-duplex - both devices can send or receive data in both directions but not at the same time, like speaking through a walkie-talkie.

Devices and addresses
With cable, we can connect one computer with another - point-to-point connection. But how to connect several devices in one network and share data among them?
To make multiple connections possible, we have to link several devices into one network and label them to ensure that the data has both: an address for the machine that sent the transmission and the one the message was intended for. Local Area Network(LAN) is a technique to create a relatively small network of close-by machines. LAN is a collection of devices connected in one physical location, such as a building, office, or home. One of the most famous communication protocols for LANs widely used today is the Ethernet, created by Xerox PARC in the early 70s. Ethernet uses a Media Access Control (MAC) address to point a sender and a receiver of transmitted data in LANs, mentioning them in the Ethernet frames header. MAC addresses are unique for every computer device and assigned by the device manufacturer.
To connect several devices with unique MAC addresses into LAN, we have to choose a network device. 
One of the most basic and straightforward devices is a Hub. A hub allows a connection to lots of computers and transmits data through cables. It doesn't know how to read the headers of shared data and sends it to every device in a network. Then every device will check the frame's header and ignore it if it wasn't mentioned there as a receiver. This approach creates a lot of noise in the network and causes data collisions if several computers simultaneously transmit data. The protocol, called Carrier Sense Multiple Access with Collision Detection, knows how to deal with collisions. CSMA/CD organizes the transmitting process by providing complex time management. Only one computer can transmit data while others are waiting silently for some period, calculated by an exponential backoff algorithm, before re-transmitting data.

But what if we want to connect more than 100 devices and not wait for the moment of silence? For more extensive networks, switches will be a better choice.
A switch is a smart network device that contains information about the MAC addresses of the connected devices. In contrast to the hub, it reviews the packets of data and directs them to the destination without collisions.
Both a hub and a switch allow computers to communicate over short distances in a single network segment. To effectively send data to longer distances, we have to use router devices and packet switching techniques. 

Switching Technique

There are mainly three typical Switching Techniques available for digital traffic:
Circuit switching is a technique that directly connects the sender and the receiver in an unbroken path. It provides a dedicated communication channel, but it requires a dedicated line for every connection and is very expensive. This circuit switching network is currently used by the major military communication networks of the Pentagon.
Message switching. There is no dedicated path required between two communicating devices - lots of points are connected into the extensive network. That allows reaching the destination through several possible stops - hops.
Packet switching is similar to message switching with one exception: big messages are chopped up into small pieces - packets - to prevent the network from clogging up with a big data pack. Every packet contains all the information about its content, receiver, and sender. It can be routed the most effective way by a router device, where each packet is treated as a separate entity - datagram. When received, packets are reassembled in the proper sequence to make up the message.
A router is network hardware that supports communication between LAN and the Internet or LAN and WAN (Wide Area Network). Routers are generally located at gateways that join two networks so the devices on one network can communicate with the devices on another. A router can determine the best path to forward the packets. They may travel independently to their destination using different hop stops and routes. Network routers aim to balance the load across every path they care about to ensure delivery.
